README.md, before:

# OpenCode Obsidian Plugin

An OpenCode client, inside Obsidian.

OpenCode is a server that can be plugged into various frontends; this plugin provides an Obsidian interface to the OpenCode service.

This project uses TypeScript to provide type checking and documentation.
The repo depends on the latest plugin API (obsidian.d.ts) in TypeScript Definition format, which contains TSDoc comments describing what it does.

## First time developing plugins?

Quick starting guide for new plugin devs:

- Check if [someone already developed a plugin for what you want](https://obsidian.md/plugins)! There might be an existing plugin similar enough that you can partner up with.
- Clone this repo to a local development folder. For convenience, you can place this folder in your `.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-opencode` folder.
- Install bun, then run `bun install` in the command line under your repo folder.
- Run `bun run dev` to compile your plugin from `main.ts` to `main.js`.
- Make changes to `main.ts` (or create new `.ts` files). Those changes should be automatically compiled into `main.js`.
- Reload Obsidian to load the new version of your plugin.
- Enable plugin in settings window.
- For updates to the Obsidian API run `bun update` in the command line under your repo folder.

## Releasing new releases

- Update your `manifest.json` with your new version number, such as `1.0.1`, and the minimum Obsidian version required for your latest release.
- Update your `versions.json` file with `"new-plugin-version": "minimum-obsidian-version"` so older versions of Obsidian can download an older version of your plugin that's compatible.
- Create new GitHub release using your new version number as the "Tag version". Use the exact version number, don't include a prefix `v`. See here for an example: https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-sample-plugin/releases
- Upload the files `manifest.json`, `main.js`, `styles.css` as binary attachments. Note: The manifest.json file must be in two places, first the root path of your repository and also in the release.
- Publish the release.

> You can simplify the version bump process by running `bunx npm version patch`, `bunx npm version minor` or `bunx npm version major` after updating `minAppVersion` manually in `manifest.json`.
> The command will bump version in `manifest.json` and `package.json`, and add the entry for the new version to `versions.json`

## Adding your plugin to the community plugin list

- Check the [plugin guidelines](https://docs.obsidian.md/Plugins/Releasing/Plugin+guidelines).
- Publish an initial version.
- Make sure you have a `README.md` file in the root of your repo.
- Make a pull request at https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-releases to add your plugin.

## How to use

- Clone this repo.
- Make sure your bun is installed (`bun --version`).
- `bun install` to install dependencies.
- `bun run dev` to start compilation in watch mode.

## Manually installing the plugin

- Copy over `main.js`, `styles.css`, `manifest.json` to your vault `VaultFolder/.obsidian/plugins/your-plugin-id/`.

## Improve code quality with eslint
- [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) is a tool that analyzes your code to quickly find problems. You can run ESLint against your plugin to find common bugs and ways to improve your code.
- This project already has eslint preconfigured, you can invoke a check by running `eslint main.ts` or `eslint ./src/`
- Together with a custom eslint [plugin](https://github.com/obsidianmd/eslint-plugin) for Obsidian specific code guidelines.
- A GitHub action is preconfigured to automatically lint every commit on all branches.

## Funding URL

You can include funding URLs where people who use your plugin can financially support it.

The simple way is to set the `fundingUrl` field to your link in your `manifest.json` file:

```json
{
    "fundingUrl": "https://buymeacoffee.com"
}
```

If you have multiple URLs, you can also do:

```json
{
    "fundingUrl": {
        "Buy Me a Coffee": "https://buymeacoffee.com",
        "GitHub Sponsor": "https://github.com/sponsors",
        "Patreon": "https://www.patreon.com/"
    }
}
```

## API Documentation

See https://docs.obsidian.md

Commit message:

docs: update README with warning and additional images
Added warning about the plugin's incomplete status and provided links to a complete implementation.

README.md, after:

# OpenCode Obsidian Plugin

An OpenCode client, inside Obsidian.

> [!WARNING]
> This is a work in progress. Not yet complete or suitable for day-to-day use. Try [this one](https://github.com/mtymek/opencode-obsidian/tree/main#) for a complete working implementation.

<img width="534" height="206" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8bc1092d-2c34-4a56-8147-c3e86a69e88e" />

<img width="842" height="438" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bd4921b8-287d-44f9-8e42-4a4a41c6d0d1" />


OpenCode is a server that can be plugged into various frontends; this plugin provides an Obsidian interface to the OpenCode service.

This project uses TypeScript to provide type checking and documentation.
The repo depends on the latest plugin API (obsidian.d.ts) in TypeScript Definition format, which contains TSDoc comments describing what it does.

## First time developing plugins?

Quick starting guide for new plugin devs:

- Check if [someone already developed a plugin for what you want](https://obsidian.md/plugins)! There might be an existing plugin similar enough that you can partner up with.
- Clone this repo to a local development folder. For convenience, you can place this folder in your `.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-opencode` folder.
- Install bun, then run `bun install` in the command line under your repo folder.
- Run `bun run dev` to compile your plugin from `main.ts` to `main.js`.
- Make changes to `main.ts` (or create new `.ts` files). Those changes should be automatically compiled into `main.js`.
- Reload Obsidian to load the new version of your plugin.
- Enable plugin in settings window.
- For updates to the Obsidian API run `bun update` in the command line under your repo folder.

## Releasing new releases

- Update your `manifest.json` with your new version number, such as `1.0.1`, and the minimum Obsidian version required for your latest release.
- Update your `versions.json` file with `"new-plugin-version": "minimum-obsidian-version"` so older versions of Obsidian can download an older version of your plugin that's compatible.
- Create new GitHub release using your new version number as the "Tag version". Use the exact version number, don't include a prefix `v`. See here for an example: https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-sample-plugin/releases
- Upload the files `manifest.json`, `main.js`, `styles.css` as binary attachments. Note: The manifest.json file must be in two places, first the root path of your repository and also in the release.
- Publish the release.

> You can simplify the version bump process by running `bunx npm version patch`, `bunx npm version minor` or `bunx npm version major` after updating `minAppVersion` manually in `manifest.json`.
> The command will bump version in `manifest.json` and `package.json`, and add the entry for the new version to `versions.json`

## Adding your plugin to the community plugin list

- Check the [plugin guidelines](https://docs.obsidian.md/Plugins/Releasing/Plugin+guidelines).
- Publish an initial version.
- Make sure you have a `README.md` file in the root of your repo.
- Make a pull request at https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-releases to add your plugin.

## How to use

- Clone this repo.
- Make sure your bun is installed (`bun --version`).
- `bun install` to install dependencies.
- `bun run dev` to start compilation in watch mode.

## Manually installing the plugin

- Copy over `main.js`, `styles.css`, `manifest.json` to your vault `VaultFolder/.obsidian/plugins/your-plugin-id/`.

## Improve code quality with eslint
- [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) is a tool that analyzes your code to quickly find problems. You can run ESLint against your plugin to find common bugs and ways to improve your code.
- This project already has eslint preconfigured, you can invoke a check by running `eslint main.ts` or `eslint ./src/`
- Together with a custom eslint [plugin](https://github.com/obsidianmd/eslint-plugin) for Obsidian specific code guidelines.
- A GitHub action is preconfigured to automatically lint every commit on all branches.

## Funding URL

You can include funding URLs where people who use your plugin can financially support it.

The simple way is to set the `fundingUrl` field to your link in your `manifest.json` file:

```json
{
    "fundingUrl": "https://buymeacoffee.com"
}
```

If you have multiple URLs, you can also do:

```json
{
    "fundingUrl": {
        "Buy Me a Coffee": "https://buymeacoffee.com",
        "GitHub Sponsor": "https://github.com/sponsors",
        "Patreon": "https://www.patreon.com/"
    }
}
```

## API Documentation

See https://docs.obsidian.md
